Extended query syntax
---------------------

The following special operators and modifiers can be used when using the
extended matching mode:

-  operator OR:

   ::

       hello | world

-  operator MAYBE:

   ::

       hello MAYBE world

-  operator NOT:

   ::


       hello -world
       hello !world

-  field search operator:

   ::

       @title hello @body world

-  field position limit modifier:

   ::

       @body[50] hello

-  multiple-field search operator:

   ::

       @(title,body) hello world

-  ignore field search operator (will ignore any matches of ‘hello
   world’ from field ‘title’):

   ::

       @!title hello world

-  ignore multiple-field search operator (if we have fields title,
   subject and body then @!(title) is equivalent to @(subject,body)):

   ::

       @!(title,body) hello world

-  all-field search operator:

   ::

       @* hello

-  phrase search operator:

   ::

       "hello world"

-  proximity search operator:

   ::

       "hello world"~10

-  quorum matching operator:

   ::

       "the world is a wonderful place"/3

-  strict order operator (aka operator “before”):

   ::

       aaa << bbb << ccc

-  exact form modifier:

   ::

       raining =cats and =dogs

-  field-start and field-end modifier:

   ::

       ^hello world$

-  keyword IDF boost modifier:

   ::

       boosted^1.234 boostedfieldend$^1.234

-  NEAR, generalized proximity operator:

   ::

       hello NEAR/3 world NEAR/4 "my test"

-  SENTENCE operator:

   ::

       all SENTENCE words SENTENCE "in one sentence"

-  PARAGRAPH operator:

   ::

       "Bill Gates" PARAGRAPH "Steve Jobs"

-  ZONE limit operator:

   ::

       ZONE:(h3,h4)

   only in these titles

-  ZONESPAN limit operator:

   ::

       ZONESPAN:(h2)

   only in a (single) title

Here's an example query that uses some of these operators:

Example 5.2. Extended matching mode: query example
                                                  

::


    "hello world" @title "example program"~5 @body python -(php|perl) @* code

The full meaning of this search is:

-  Find the words ‘hello’ and ‘world’ adjacently in any field in a
   document;

-  Additionally, the same document must also contain the words ‘example’
   and ‘program’ in the title field, with up to, but not including, 5
   words between the words in question; (E.g. “example PHP program”
   would be matched however “example script to introduce outside data
   into the correct context for your program” would not because two
   terms have 5 or more words between them)

-  Additionally, the same document must contain the word ‘python’ in the
   body field, but not contain either ‘php’ or ‘perl’;

-  Additionally, the same document must contain the word ‘code’ in any
   field.

There always is implicit AND operator, so “hello world” means that both
“hello” and “world” must be present in matching document.

OR operator precedence is higher than AND, so “looking for cat \| dog \|
mouse” means “looking for ( cat \| dog \| mouse )” and *not* “(looking
for cat) \| dog \| mouse”.

Field limit operator limits subsequent searching to a given field.
Normally, query will fail with an error message if given field name does
not exist in the searched index. However, that can be suppressed by
specifying “@@relaxed&quot; option at the very beginning of the query:

::


    @@relaxed @nosuchfield my query

This can be helpful when searching through heterogeneous indexes with
different schemas.

Field position limit additionally restricts the searching to first N
position within given field (or fields). For example, “@body [50] hello”
will <b>not</b> match the documents where the keyword ‘hello’ occurs at
position 51 and below in the body.

Proximity distance is specified in words, adjusted for word count, and
applies to all words within quotes. For instance, “cat dog mouse”~5
query means that there must be less than 8-word span which contains all
3 words, ie. “CAT aaa bbb ccc DOG eee fff MOUSE” document will *not*
match this query, because this span is exactly 8 words long.

Quorum matching operator introduces a kind of fuzzy matching. It will
only match those documents that pass a given threshold of given words.
The example above (“the world is a wonderful place”/3) will match all
documents that have at least 3 of the 6 specified words. Operator is
limited to 255 keywords. Instead of an absolute number, you can also
specify a number between 0.0 and 1.0 (standing for 0% and 100%), and
Sphinx will match only documents with at least the specified percentage
of given words. The same example above could also have been written “the
world is a wonderful place”/0.5 and it would match documents with at
least 50% of the 6 words.

Strict order operator (aka operator “before”) will match the document
only if its argument keywords occur in the document exactly in the query
order. For instance, “black << cat” query (without quotes) will match
the document “black and white cat” but *not* the “that cat was black”
document. Order operator has the lowest priority. It can be applied both
to just keywords and more complex expressions, ie. this is a valid
query:

::


    (bag of words) << "exact phrase" << red|green|blue

Exact form keyword modifier will match the document only if the keyword
occurred in exactly the specified form. The default behavior is to match
the document if the stemmed keyword matches. For instance, “runs” query
will match both the document that contains “runs” *and* the document
that contains “running”, because both forms stem to just “run” - while
“=runs” query will only match the first document. Exact form operator
requires
`index\_exact\_words <../index_configuration_options/indexexact_words.md>`__
option to be enabled. This is a modifier that affects the keyword and
thus can be used within operators such as phrase, proximity, and quorum
operators. It is possible to apply an exact form modifier to the phrase
operator. It's really just syntax sugar - it adds an exact form modifier
to all terms contained within the phrase.

::


    ="exact phrase"

Field-start and field-end keyword modifiers will make the keyword match
only if it occurred at the very start or the very end of a fulltext
field, respectively. For instance, the query “^hello world$” (with
quotes and thus combining phrase operator and start/end modifiers) will
only match documents that contain at least one field that has exactly
these two keywords.

Arbitrarily nested brackets and negations are allowed. However, the
query must be possible to compute without involving an implicit list of
all documents:

::


    // correct query
    aaa -(bbb -(ccc ddd))

    // queries that are non-computable
    -aaa
    aaa | -bbb

The phrase search operator may include a ‘match any term’ modifier.
Terms within the phrase operator are position significant. When the
‘match any term’ modifier is implemented, the position of the subsequent
terms from that phrase query will be shifted. Therefore, ‘match any’ has
no impact on search performance.

::


    "exact * phrase * * for terms"

<b>NEAR operator</b> is a generalized version of a proximity operator.
The syntax is ``NEAR/N``, it is case-sensitive, and no spaces are
allowed between the NEAR keyword, the slash sign, and the distance
value.

The original proximity operator only worked on sets of keywords. NEAR is
more generic and can accept arbitrary subexpressions as its two
arguments, matching the document when both subexpressions are found
within N words of each other, no matter in which order. NEAR is left
associative and has the same (lowest) precedence as BEFORE.

You should also note how a ``(one NEAR/7 two NEAR/7 three)`` query using
NEAR is not really equivalent to a ``(&quot;one two three&quot;~7)`` one
using keyword proximity operator. The difference here is that the
proximity operator allows for up to 6 non-matching words between all the
3 matching words, but the version with NEAR is less restrictive: it
would allow for up to 6 words between ‘one’ and ‘two’ and then for up to
6 more between that two-word matching and a ‘three’ keyword.

<b>SENTENCE and PARAGRAPH operators</b> matches the document when both
its arguments are within the same sentence or the same paragraph of
text, respectively. The arguments can be either keywords, or phrases, or
the instances of the same operator. Here are a few examples:

::


    one SENTENCE two
    one SENTENCE "two three"
    one SENTENCE "two three" SENTENCE four

The order of the arguments within the sentence or paragraph does not
matter. These operators only work on indexes built with
`index\_sp <../index_configuration_options/indexsp.md>`__ (sentence and
paragraph indexing feature) enabled, and revert to a mere AND otherwise.
Refer to the ``index_sp`` directive documentation for the notes on
what's considered a sentence and a paragraph.

<b>ZONE limit operator</b> is quite similar to field limit operator, but
restricts matching to a given in-field zone or a list of zones. Note
that the subsequent subexpressions are *not* required to match in a
single contiguous span of a given zone, and may match in multiple spans.
For instance, ``(ZONE:th hello world)`` query *will* match this example
document:

::


    <th>Table 1\. Local awareness of Hello Kitty brand.</th>
    .. some table data goes here ..
    <th>Table 2\. World-wide brand awareness.</th>

ZONE operator affects the query until the next field or ZONE limit
operator, or the closing parenthesis. It only works on the indexes built
with zones support (see `the section called
“index\_zones” <../index_configuration_options/indexzones.md>`__) and
will be ignored otherwise.

<b>ZONESPAN limit operator</b> is similar to the ZONE operator, but
requires the match to occur in a single contiguous span. In the example
above, ``(ZONESPAN:th hello world)&gt;`` would not match the document,
since “hello” and “world” do not occur within the same span.

<b>MAYBE</b> operator works much like \| operator but doesn't return
documents which match only right subtree expression.
