stopwords
~~~~~~~~~

Stopword files list (space separated). Optional, default is empty.

Stopwords are the words that will not be indexed. Typically you'd put
most frequent words in the stopwords list because they do not add much
value to search results but consume a lot of resources to process.

You can specify several file names, separated by spaces. All the files
will be loaded. Stopwords file format is simple plain text. The encoding
must be UTF-8. File data will be tokenized with respect to
`charset\_table <../../index_configuration_options/charsettable.md>`__
settings, so you can use the same separators as in the indexed data.

The `stemmers <../../index_configuration_options/morphology.md>`__ will
normally be applied when parsing stopwords file. That might however lead
to undesired results. You can turn that off with
`stopwords\_unstemmed <../../index_configuration_options/stopwordsunstemmed.md>`__.

Small enough files are stored in the index header, see `the section
called
“embedded\_limit” <../../index_configuration_options/embeddedlimit.md>`__
for details.

While stopwords are not indexed, they still do affect the keyword
positions. For instance, assume that “the” is a stopword, that document
1 contains the line “in office”, and that document 2 contains “in the
office”. Searching for “in office” as for exact phrase will only return
the first document, as expected, even though “the” in the second one is
stopped. That behavior can be tweaked through the
`stopword\_step <../../index_configuration_options/stopwordstep.md>`__
directive.

Stopwords files can either be created manually, or semi-automatically.
``indexer`` provides a mode that creates a frequency dictionary of the
index, sorted by the keyword frequency, see ``--buildstops`` and
``--buildfreqs`` switch in `the section called “``indexer`` command
reference” <../../indexer_command_reference.md>`__. Top keywords from
that dictionary can usually be used as stopwords.

Example:
^^^^^^^^

::


    stopwords = /usr/local/sphinx/data/stopwords.txt
    stopwords = stopwords-ru.txt stopwords-en.txt

